---
title: "Why I study electronic engineering (and why you should too!)"
date: 2021-10-04T22:04:50+01:00
---

Electronic engineering is a fascinating subject that touches all parts of our lives. However, it is
sometimes seen as a difficult or specialist university course. This view overlooks the significant
benefits of the course, which I will explain below.

<!--more-->

First it's worth quickly summarising what I've learned during my electronic engineering degree at
the University of Southampton. In first year I learned how to build prototype circuits, program
microcontrollers and PC applications in C and build logic circuits using an FPGA (a type of
programmable integrated circuit or IC). Second year saw more advanced circuit modules and an IC
design project where I worked in a group of six to design a timer IC. This was manufactured and we
tested it to prove that it worked. In third year I had an individual project where I designed a
fluorometer, which used many of the skills I had previously learned.

One common myth is that electronic engineering is that an electronic engineer's only job is to
design circuits. In fact, electronic engineering is like any other engineering discipline in that
projects are often highly varied. In my university and placement projects I have worked with
mechanical engineers and computer scientists, written many lines of code code and performed a wide
range of tests.

Starting an electronic engineering course at university, many people have little knowledge of
electronics or programming. All you need is A-level (or equivalent) Maths and Physics, and a
willingness to learn new things. There is plenty of academic support and all your coursemates will
be in the same position -- helping each other is a great way to learn.

Electronics will give you a valuable insight into the modern world. As the course is more applied
than pure Physics or Maths, you will understand the complex workings of a smartphone or computer.
You could even help create the next great innovation!

Employability is another great reason to study electronics. Within six months of graduating you can
expect an average starting salary of Â£26,655, with 61% of employers in the electronics sector
currently recruiting[^1]. A fantastic way to kickstart your career once at university is to get a
summer job or to apply for a UKESF scholarship.

I hope I have given you an overview of the reasons for studying electronics at university. If you
have any more questions, feel free to contact me by emailing [my first name]@[this website].

[^1]: Source: https://www.ukesf.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/UKESF-4-Reasons-to-Study-Electronics.pdf
